What is the attitude in Mexico?
A special amongst people who are studying the narco wars with all this,
uh,
build that wall stuff,
all this,
uh,
what's going on in America?
There's this,
this is very strange,
right?
Versus left polarization over here about whether or not this should be a wall
between the United States and Mexico.
Sure.
I mean,
well,
I mean the thing live Mexicans obviously very anti-Trump in Mexico.
It's innate farm and I try and be very unpopular from the very beginning when he
said,
I know they are rapists and murderers.
Yeah.
Someone's doing the raping.
How many,
he's kind of j nine.
If you look at surveys,
the,
the level is very low.
This is there anybody like me,
Trump and Mexico is there,
like there's always contrarians,
ca.
I mean,
I've seen numbers like this,
you know,
people will say like 80% or something.
I think he's terrible.
Sent means they must be at 20%.
I might have done,
I haven't met a Mexican who's been like pro Trump and I never have.
I met Salvador who was pro Trump one time and the,
he hit a guy being deported and he was like,
I know you'll get,
you know,
this guy,
Trump's going to turn out to be a great president.
So,
so I see that.
But you know,
Mexico's very,
very anti-Trump in terms of the wall.
I mean,
there's,
you know,
the terms of what,
uh,
tempted the smugglers.
Mom was talking to a smuggler in Nogales about this and he was describing he,
he'd smile.
He was from Nogales,
from a neighborhood called Buenos Aires,
which is right on the border with the United States.
He knows,
no,
God is Sonora Nogales,
Arizona.
So in the goddess inorganic growth,
And he was from the neighborhood right on the border there.
And he described the,
he first took people over the border of the United States back in the 1980s when
he was at school.
Is it high school?
And the reason was that that time is just an old fence.
And there was a hole in the fence.
They used to go through,
enter United States and go back into Mexico to send old wire fence.
And the first time he took people through people to rive from southern Mexico
saying,
how do we get to the US?
And he'd say,
Oh,
you know,
this way.
And they give them a tip.
He said the first time he got the equivalent of about 50 cents was what he made
to take people to the United States 50 cents.
Nowadays,
the cost of going into the u s is $5,000.
That's what you paid to go legally to the United States.
5,000 bucks.
So we were saying,
wow,
look at that increase every time that the u s puts more security,
it means is more expensive.
When it's more expensive,
that means more money going to criminals,
which means there's now an industry doing it.
So now the cartels make a big percentage of that money of human smuggling into
the u s um,
by luck in terms of the wall,
I mean the,
uh,
wait,
when Trump first came in,
he had the line that Mexico's going to pay for it.
Yeah.
And,
and then it,
this kind of line,
you know,
right.
The beginning,
he came,
you know,
he threatened Mexican president saying,
if you,
if you don't agree to pay for the wall and why are you going to come and meet
me?
And then it was like,
wow,
he's really gonna try to shake down in Mexico for like billions of dollars.
Is He really gonna try and do that?
Uh,
and that was kind of scary moment then I think from the point of view of Mexico,
when he first got to power lie,
he's going to do that and then he's going to deport 3 million and he's going to,
you know,
he's going to kill Nafta.
Actually those things haven't really come to pass.
Actually,
if you look over the last couple of years of Trump hasn't really hit Mexico very
hard.
So the concern was that he was going to take money that should be allocated to
other ways.
It's going to help Mexico and he was going to try to take that and use it to
build the wall.
I mean,
no one really knew when he first came and he's like,
oh,
Mexico's going to pay for this wall.
Where's the wall?
Just got 10 foot higher remembering that yeah,
it was light and his light in a,
how are you going to do that?
You're gonna,
you're gonna start threatening Mexican militarily and say,
give us money.
I mean,
it was kind of like,
uh,
like is it,
is it a shakedown?
Cause the shake down was kind of,
it was kind of a crazy diplomatic thing when he first got it.
So that was kind of scary for a moment,
for an a point of view of Mexico.
But I think after you look at the last couple of years,
yes,
I'm really hit Mexico with that navy.
He wants to build the wall.
And obviously there's a,
there's the big fast in terms of the spending here,
but if he wants to build it,
uh,
or Extendix,
there is warden sections of the border already.
If he wants to extend it,
you know,
it won't stop a lot of the hard drugs.
Uh,
I mean if you look at heroin,
cocaine,
crystal Meth,
high value drugs,
they normally go through the ports of entry,
right?
So shipping.
Yeah,
I mean they go oh,
or through the,
through the ports of entry through liker.
I mean you have a through in cars,
right?
Cars,
trucks.
I mean you,
you go through,
if you look at the Laredo,
Laredo,
one of the reasons that was a big fight in the war started there in Mexico.
Cause that's very valuable territory.
There's something like 8,000 trucks go over that border every day.
Now if you have 8,000 trucks,
how many of those can you search in a day?
And also the way they could hide this stuff in trucks,
they can hide drugs in like a metal.
They can put them in,
in,
in some kind of metal container.
Seal it up,
soldier it up,
put a bunch of stuff so it doesn't smell.
So somebody has to sell.
I'm going to open that with a blowtorch and researching.
I have after rip that vehicle apart to find the drugs,
they were putting them inside wheels.
Yay.
And that's like inside ties and some stuff that's like,
I saw the,
that's like there's song,
there's a,
is it that's one of the older tricks from your,
like the 70,
there's a song that is uh,
one of the first narco corridos their drug ballots.
Um,
Eh,
it was called contraband and trend treason for the 1970s.
And that was about hiring,
uh,
hiding marijuana back in the nine tires back then.
But yeah,
man,
now the trap cars now like super sophisticated,
they have some weird trap cars.
We have to do like a bunch of stuff like open the door,
move some staff to,
to actually to actually open finance drugs.
Others like some trick sort of door has to be active with.
Yeah,
I would imagine if there's a will,
there's a way.
And this is that much.
I mean,
I remember hearing that from,
it's not a reliable source,
but from the soprano's they were talking about only 20% of all the shipping
containers they get brought into America gets searched.
Yeah.
Well that's,
that's crazy.
Yeah.
Yeah,
absolutely.
So,
so,
so to the,
the hard drugs have learned a lot of time on through the,
the,
the ports of entry and,
and they had their,
they,
another classic trick they have is you get,
they allow some to get busted.
It's your allow one guy to get busted.
Um,
they set somebody up,
so they're taking some drugs through,
they get,
they get busted or the f entities on them and then meet me while more drugs are
going through.
And is this the United States border?
That's test,
that's catching this guy.
Yeah.
So they're not getting,
they're not getting tested in Mexico as they crossover,
right.
It's only in the United States border.
Yeah.
Some,
sometimes they might catch him in Mexico sometimes,
but the majority is gonna be the United States.
So the United States border patrol guys,
are they ever caught being corrupt?
Yeah,
absolutely.
Yeah.
There's been cases of us,
uh,
border patrol and customs entry,
people who have been,
yeah.
Caught taking a bunch of money,
taking bribes,
allowing in our land,
certain cars through that course Sandvik was through.
So yeah.